Clean up dist_overview.rst (#2913)
pytorch/tutorials: beginner_source/dist_overview.rst

Introduction
------------

The PyTorch Distributed library includes a collective of parallelism modules,
a communications layer, and infrastructure for launching and
debugging large training jobs.

Parallelism APIs
****************

These Parallelism Modules offer high-level functionality and compose with existing models:

- `Distributed Data-Parallel (DDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html>`__
- `Fully Sharded Data-Parallel Training (FSDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fsdp.html>`__
- `Tensor Parallel (TP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.tensor.parallel.html>`__
- `Pipeline Parallel (PP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/main/distributed.pipelining.html>`__

Sharding primitives
*******************

``DTensor`` and ``DeviceMesh`` are primitives used to build parallelism in terms of sharded or replicated tensors on N-dimensional process groups.

- `DTensor <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/main/torch/distributed/_tensor/README.md>`__ represents a tensor that is sharded and/or replicated, and communicates automatically to reshard tensors as needed by operations.

> - `DeviceMesh <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#devicemesh>`__ abstracts the accelerator device communicators into a multi-dimensional array, which manages the underlying ``ProcessGroup``s for collective communications in multi-dimensional parallelisms.

Reviewer: We also have a recipe about DeviceMesh https://pytorch.org/tutorials/recipes/distributed_device_mesh.html?highlight=devicemesh Maybe we should include this recipe in this section? We can put a new sentence in the end of this bullet point: "See a recipe about how to user DeviceMesh in multi-dimensional parallelism https://pytorch.org/tutorials/recipes/distributed_device_mesh.html:

Communications APIs
*******************

The `PyTorch distributed communication layer (C10D) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html>`__ offers both collective communication APIs (e.g.,
  `all_reduce <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#torch.distributed.all_reduce>`__
  and `all_gather <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#torch.distributed.all_gather>`__)
  and P2P communication APIs (e.g.,
  `send <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#torch.distributed.send>`__
  and `isend <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#torch.distributed.isend>`__),
  which are used under the hood in all of the parallelism implementations.
  `Writing Distributed Applications with PyTorch <../intermediate/dist_tuto.html>`__
  shows examples of using c10d communication APIs.

Launcher
********

> ``TorchElastic`` provides the widely used `torchrun <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/elastic/run.html>` launcher script, which spawns processes on the local and remote machines for running distributed PyTorch programs.

Reviewer: do we still want to brand it as TorchElastic? Or we should just say TorchRun?

Author: Cc @kurman

> ``TorchElastic`` provides the widely used `torchrun <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/elastic/run.html>` launcher script, which spawns processes on the local and remote machines for running distributed PyTorch programs.

Reviewer: Also it seems we are missing a `__` after the `>`

a different set of input data samples, gradients are averaged within the data-parallel communicator group before each optimizer step.

PyTorch provides several options for data-parallel training. For applications
that gradually grow from simple to complex and from prototype to production, the
common development trajectory would be:

1. Use single-device training if the data and model can fit in one GPU, and
   training speed is not a concern.
2. Use `DistributedDataParallel (DDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/notes/ddp.html>`__,
   if your model fits in a single GPU but you want to easily scale up training using multiple GPUs.  Use `torchrun <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/elastic/run.html>`__,
   to launch multiple pytorch processes if you are you using more than one node.  See also: `Getting Started with Distributed Data Parallel <../intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html>`__
3. Use `FullyShardedDataParallel (FSDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fsdp.html>`__
   when your model cannot fit on one GPU.  See also: `Getting Started with FSDP <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/FSDP_tutorial.html>`__

> 4. When using a large enough cluster that FSDP communications becomes a bottleneck, you can introduce Tensor and Pipeline Parallelism.  See `TorchTitan <https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan>`__ for an end to end example.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should split out a model parallelism section given that the beginning of this section only mentioned about "data-parallel training". Or we could augment the first paragraph of this section by adding both Data Parallelism and Model Parallelism, so that it make sense to put this bullet point here.

Author: well i renamed the section from 'Data Parallelism' to 'Applying Parallelism To Scale Your Model' to make it more general.

> 4. When using a large enough cluster that FSDP communications becomes a bottleneck, you can introduce Tensor and Pipeline Parallelism.  See `TorchTitan <https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan>`__ for an end to end example.

Reviewer: Also since we include the model parallelism techniques, could you plug our newly added TP tutorial somewhere? https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/TP_tutorial.html

When deciding what parallelism techniques to choose for your model, use these common guidelines:

#. Use `DistributedDataParallel (DDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/notes/ddp.html>`__,
   if your model fits in a single GPU but you want to easily scale up training using multiple GPUs.

   * Use `torchrun <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/elastic/run.html>`__, to launch multiple pytorch processes if you are you using more than one node.

   * See also: `Getting Started with Distributed Data Parallel <../intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html>`__

#. Use `FullyShardedDataParallel (FSDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fsdp.html>`__ when your model cannot fit on one GPU.

   * See also: `Getting Started with FSDP <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/FSDP_tutorial.html>`__

#. Use `Tensor Parallel (TP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.tensor.parallel.html>`__ and/or `Pipeline Parallel (PP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/main/distributed.pipelining.html>`__ if you reach scalining limitations with FSDP.

   * Try our `Tensor Parallelism Tutorial <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/TP_tutorial.html>`__

>    * See also: `TorchTitan end to end example of 3D parallelism<https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan>`__.

Reviewer: ![Screenshot 2024-06-12 at 1 10 52 PM](https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/assets/9443650/530966c4-ef99-4f49-b111-f2155b03074d)

We would need a space before `<`

Introduction
------------

The PyTorch Distributed library includes a collective of parallelism modules,
a communications layer (C10D), and infrastructure for launching and
debugging large training jobs.

These Parallelism Modules offer high-level functionality and compose with existing models:
* `Distributed Data-Parallel (DDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html>`__
* `Fully Sharded Data-Parallel Training (FSDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fsdp.html>`__

> * TODO what to mention about FSDP2 vs FSDP

Reviewer: I think these TODOs would likely be rendered in the tutorial page too, so we might want to remove them for now and add them later?

Author: oh i was planning to fix before landing. i wanted to ask @awgu what he thinks about doc'ing these two

* `Tensor Parallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.tensor.parallel.html>`__

> * TODO link to pipeline parallel after stable docs link exists

Reviewer: ditto: we probably want to remove the line or we can land after the stable doc link from 2.4?

another option is to use the main doc link instead of stable

> DTensor and DeviceMesh are primitives used to build parallelism in terms of sharded or replicated tensors on N-dimensional process groups.

Reviewer 2: Should those be in backticks as names of modules? if yes, please wrap them, otherwise add to en-wordlist.txt to pass spellcheck. 

Please add `reshard` and `sharded` to en-wordlist.txt.

Author: DTensor is a class name, not a module name.  Should it be added with backticks too?

If i need to add DTensor to the spelling wordlist, do i need to match the capitalization, or can i just put lowercase dtensor in there and DTensor would also match?

Reviewer 2: Yes, backticks would work for a class as well. Intersphinx should work too if you'd prefer that.
Both DTensor and dtensor would need to be added. But I'd prefer backticks =) as that's the correct formatting.

Author: hmm, the backticks worked for DTensor/DeviceMesh, but ProcessGroups rendered badly, like  \``ProcessGroup``s

* `DTensor <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/main/torch/distributed/_tensor/README.md>`__ represents a tensor that is sharded and/or replicated, and communicates automatically to reshard tensors as needed by operations.

> * `DeviceMesh <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#devicemesh>`__ abstracts multiple dimensions of parallelism and manages the underlying ProcessGroups used for collective communications,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `DeviceMesh <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#devicemesh>`__ abstracts the accelerator device communicators into a multi-dimensional array, which manages the underlying ProcessGroups for collective communications in multi-dimensional parallelisms.
```

> * `DeviceMesh <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#devicemesh>`__ abstracts multiple dimensions of parallelism and manages the underlying ProcessGroups used for collective communications,

Reviewer 2: Same here. Feels like it should be in backticks (``ProcessGroups ``) - will pass spellcheck after that.

Author: ok. i didnt see your comments till after i pushed a change to add words to spelling list. ProcessGroup is also a class.  Should i write it as ``ProcessGroup``s?  or where do I put the `s`?   Or do I just put it into the spelling list

Reviewer 2: `ProcessGroup`s should be okay I think.

Author: hmm, the backticks worked for DTensor/DeviceMesh, but ProcessGroups rendered badly, like  \``ProcessGroup``s

> `C10D <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html>`__

Reviewer: do we want to still keep it as "Collective communication (c10d) module"? "C10D" might be a familiar term for us but might not for the audience

Author: well, any proposal for what to name it then?

Reviewer 2: This whole block looks a bit [weird](https://docs-preview.pytorch.org/pytorch/tutorials/2913/beginner/dist_overview.html) when rendered:
Move `offers both  collective communication APIs (e.g.,` to the same line? Also agree that c10d might be confusing, suggesting to spell it out and give abbreviation in parethesis:

`Collective communication (C10D) module <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html>`__ offers....

Author: Thanks! I decided to reformat this section a bit- added 'headings' for each subsection, and also renamed the c10d link.  lmk what you think about the new version.

  offers both collective communication APIs (e.g.,
  `all_reduce <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#torch.distributed.all_reduce>`__
  and `all_gather <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#torch.distributed.all_gather>`__)
  and P2P communication APIs (e.g.,
  `send <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#torch.distributed.send>`__
  and `isend <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.html#torch.distributed.isend>`__),
  which are used under the hood in all of the parallelism implementations.
  `Writing Distributed Applications with PyTorch <../intermediate/dist_tuto.html>`__
  shows examples of using c10d communication APIs.

Data Parallel Training
----------------------

Data Parallelism is a widely adopted single-program multiple-data training paradigm
where the model is replicated on every process, every model replica computes local gradients for

> a different set of input data samples, gradients are globally averaged before each optimizer step.

Reviewer: nit: gradients are averaged within the data parallel ranks before each optimizer step.

PyTorch provides several options for data-parallel training. For applications
that gradually grow from simple to complex and from prototype to production, the
common development trajectory would be:

1. Use single-device training if the data and model can fit in one GPU, and
   training speed is not a concern.

> 2. Use single-machine multi-GPU

Reviewer: Shall we unify `Use single-machine multi-GPU` and `Use multi-machine`? IMO the previous doc is to distinguish the old DP and the DDP (DP is single process I think so there were some difference). But now for pytorch distributed we can universally recommend "multi-gpu" DDP

   `DistributedDataParallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html>`__,
   if you would like to further speed up training and are willing to write a
   little more code to set it up.
3. Use multi-machine `DistributedDataParallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html>`__
   and the `launching script <https://github.com/pytorch/examples/blob/master/distributed/ddp/README.md>`__,
   if the application needs to scale across machine boundaries.
4. Use multi-GPU `FullyShardedDataParallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fsdp.html>`__
   training on a single-machine or multi-machine when the data and model cannot
   fit on one GPU.

.. note:: Data-parallel training also works with `Automatic Mixed Precision (AMP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/notes/amp_examples.html#working-with-multiple-gpus>`__.

> DDP materials are listed below:

Reviewer: can we get rid of the `Single-Machine Model Parallel Best Practices` in this section (inside the second bullet point)?

Introduction
------------

The PyTorch Distributed library includes a collective of parallelism modules,
a communications layer (C10D), and infrastructure for launching and
debugging large training jobs.

These Parallelism Modules offer high-level functionality and compose with existing models:
* `Distributed Data-Parallel (DDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html>`__
* `Fully Sharded Data-Parallel Training (FSDP) <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fsdp.html>`__
* TODO what to mention about FSDP2 vs FSDP
* `Tensor Parallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.tensor.parallel.html>`__
* `Pipeline Parallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/main/distributed.pipelining.html>`__

``DTensor`` and ``DeviceMesh`` are primitives used to build parallelism in terms of sharded or replicated tensors on N-dimensional process groups.

> * `DTensor <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/main/torch/distributed/_tensor/README.md>`__ represents a tensor that is sharded and/or replicated, and communicates automatically to reshard tensors as needed by operations.

Reviewer 2: add a blank line above line so that the list renders [correctly](https://docs-preview.pytorch.org/pytorch/tutorials/2913/beginner/dist_overview.html#introduction).

> * `DTensor <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/main/torch/distributed/_tensor/README.md>`__ represents a tensor that is sharded and/or replicated, and communicates automatically to reshard tensors as needed by operations.

Reviewer 2: add a blank line before the list so it renders correctly.

   and applies it to an asynchronous parameter server (PS) training application.
3. The `Distributed Pipeline Parallelism Using RPC <../intermediate/dist_pipeline_parallel_tutorial.html>`__
   tutorial extends the single-machine pipeline parallel example (presented in
   `Single-Machine Model Parallel Best Practices <../intermediate/model_parallel_tutorial.html>`__)
   to a distributed environment and shows how to implement it using RPC.
4. The `Implementing Batch RPC Processing Using Asynchronous Executions <../intermediate/rpc_async_execution.html>`__
   tutorial demonstrates how to implement RPC batch processing using the
   `@rpc.functions.async_execution <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/rpc.html#torch.distributed.rpc.functions.async_execution>`__
   decorator, which can help speed up inference and training. It uses
   RL and PS examples similar to those in the above tutorials 1 and 2.
5. The `Combining Distributed DataParallel with Distributed RPC Framework <../advanced/rpc_ddp_tutorial.html>`__
   tutorial demonstrates how to combine DDP with RPC to train a model using
   distributed data parallelism combined with distributed model parallelism.

> 

Reviewer 2: Also, suggesting to add more links in the end to the existing tutorials and other sources that would help users to get started. Could add under the See Also section.

Author: yea, that's a good point.  i'm actually not all that familiar with the tutorials content we already have, but i suspect a lot of it is out of date.  I may do a search for any important ones to add now, but i think we can also build that up more over time as we add more tutorials or update old ones.

The `FullyShardedDataParallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fsdp.html>`__
(FSDP) is a type of data parallelism paradigm which maintains a per-GPU copy of a model’s
parameters, gradients and optimizer states, it shards all of these states across
data-parallel workers. The tutorial
`Getting Started with FSDP <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/FSDP_tutorial.html>`__
provides in depth explanation and example of how FSDP works.

PyTorch Distributed Developers
------------------------------

> 

Reviewer: We might want to clean up the https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/torch/distributed/CONTRIBUTING.md doc as a follow up

Reviewer 3: Why RPC is no longer supported

Author: RPC has not been actively developed on for a long time, and isn't being used by any of the recently developed distributed components.  I am cleaning up the 'top level' overview to highlight the most active/relevant components.
